benjamin franklin
part-time vegetarian vegetarian
hypocrite he in his autobiography
mentions that at age 16 he became a
vegetarian
he was influenced by the writings of a
man named thomas tryon who was an author
in england in the 1600s
i was interested in thomas trying i
wanted to know what exactly he had said
about vegetarianism that would have
influenced a free thinker like benjamin
franklin to become a vegetarian
so in reading this
i was
saddened to find that really even though
there was some pro-animal rights stuff
he was a spiritual guru he had spiritual
beliefs surrounding vegetarianism and in
this way he discredits the movement he
discredits animal rights and
vegetarianism if you look online you'll
find some websites that say been been
franklin vegetarian since age 16. this
is why he was so brilliant this is why
he made so many inventions because
because of this vegetarian diet but if
you read a little bit further into the
autobiography you'll find that he was a
total vegetarian hypocrite
not even a flexitarian just he
he lived with the kind of hypocrisy in
this moral gray area of knowing that he
shouldn't eat meat that he shouldn't
consume flesh but he does anyway
and i find this happening all the time
on vegetarian websites on vegetarian
youtube channels vegan youtube channels
where they try to use these
fake facts this history that is not
really true to support vegetarianism to
support veganism number 5. benjamin
franklin known as one of america's
founding fathers benjamin franklin was a
well-known scientist politician and
inventor he is credited with discovering
electricity with his invention of the
lightning rod franklin also invented
bifocals and the franklin stove the
witty inventor also abstained from
eating meat he is quoted as saying my
refusing to eat meat occasioned
inconveniency and i have been frequently
chided for my singularity but my light
repast allows for greater progress for
greater clearness of head and quicker
comprehension for example franklin once
almost killed himself trying to cook a
turkey with electricity cooking with
electricity was something ben had been
experimenting with and he found
electrified meat particularly tender in
early 1749 he even threw a picnic on the
banks of the schuylkill river in
pennsylvania where the turkey was killed
with an electrical shock and then cooked
by being rotated over an electrically
kindled fire in a letter from 1750
franklin describes an incident in which
he was trying to kill a turkey with an
electrical shock but instead wound up
electrocuting himself witnesses reported
him being engulfed in a flash of light
and hearing a loud crack he would later
tell his brother that the biggest injury
he sustained was to his ego
i remember the first time i went to a
loving hut restaurant
if you're vegetarian or vegan you
probably have heard of this restaurant
there are chains all around the world of
the loving hut one of the notorious
things about the restaurant is that they
have pictures up of famous vegetarians
or famous vegans
with a quote from them about their
veganism why they became vegan
so this is something that you'll see if
you first
become vegan and look up information
about vegetarianism or veganism on the
internet you'll find that
most of the propaganda in favor of
veganism relies heavily on the use of
celebrities or historical figures who
were vegetarian or claimed to be
vegetarian
and
as time passes if you actually look into
each of these celebrities if you look
into each of these historical figures
you'll find that a lot of this really is
just propaganda and
it's not true
a lot of people who
in history we think of as being
vegetarian weren't actually vegetarian
the rewriting of history is is full of
this issue that people misrepresent
historical figures for having had morals
and
qualities about them that they didn't
actually have
so
i've been reading thomas trying
and thinking to myself you know look
this could have been figured out at any
period of history it doesn't take a
genius
anybody can learn
it made me think you know i remember
when i first became vegan
when i first was learning about this
stuff i
made a big
document that i shared with some of my
family and i was hopeful i had some
optimism that what i had sent to them
would lead them to become vegetarian or
vegan themselves
but after being vegan for
almost six years now i've really
concluded that i've failed at converting
any of my family members to
vegetarianism or veganism
none of them
cared about it none of them care enough
to change their diet
and it's with great sadness that i
reflect on how little i've done to
influence other people in the world to
become vegan it's really a difficult
task to try to convert anybody to
veganism and if you try to rely on these
historical figures
i really i just can't believe that being
vegan what we have to rely on is
fake history that we have to watch these
videos and see people claiming that
these historical figures were vegetarian
or vegan when they weren't and if you
just do a little bit of research if you
read the primary sources you'll find out
that they weren't thomas tryin despite
his
advocating for a non-meat diet and even
he he couldn't convert his wife to
veganism this is what what it means to
be vegetarian or vegan you're living in
this world where
everybody is participating in a cruel
system
and you try and try to get people to
change their mind on a subject and they
just refuse to listen to you now there's
a lot worth reading in the ancient texts
you yourself can read these texts they
aren't that long but this this week i
was i was trying to look into these
different
uh historical figures and i just read
plutarch's on the eating of flesh
porphyry on abstinence from animal food
this is 2 000 years ago
these philosophers had figured it out
some of the same exact arguments like
the structure of the human body
the teeth the mouth the fact that we
don't actually eat flesh raw we don't
bite into the hide of an animal um this
same exact
image that vegan activists say today can
be found in plutarch sadly when i was
looking into thomas tryin
i think a lot of what he had to say was
simply that if you want to
be a pure soul and also when reading
porfiri
the way to purity is to eat a slender
diet
to eat as little as possible
or to eat as light as possible and this
is
purifying for the soul and this brings
us closer to
this belief that uh we're souls living
in human bodies as opposed to the idea
that we are our bodies and
this is the one life that we have we're
not going to be reincarnated into an
animal it's not that we will refuse to
eat meat because we think that
a soul that possibly could be
reincarnated into a human being
is in this animal and that's that's
wrong to kill this animal because it
could be reincarnated into a human being
right
that it's equivalent to murder for this
reason
it can't be
for these reasons that people decide to
go vegan and it can't be based on a lie
i don't want
a movement based on a lie i don't want
an ideology based on a lie and a diet
based on a lot either and i don't want
to be a part of a movement that relies
on
pseudoscience i don't want to be a part
of
a movement that relies on kind of
religious ideology uh
i'm a nihilist
i don't believe that we are souls living
in these fleshy bodies and
the way to purifying our souls is to not
eat meat but i think for
a large part of the history of
vegetarianism and veganism that is what
has
led people to not eating meat to
abstaining from eating meat
if you live this way if you live this
way where you're eating animals if you
are eating animal products
you're contributing to a
thousands of years history of animal
slaughter cruelty
for no good reason it's really awful and
it's the consequences are just terrible
the impacts on the environment the
impacts on
human morality the impacts on our whole
society it really matters and seems like
the only people that care the only
people who
are trying to make a difference they
rely on these fake facts it can't be
based on fake history it can't be that
people are inspired to become vegetarian
or vegan based off of a lie
so
i i am advocating for a movement a vegan
movement that is based on reality and
that's based on doing the right thing
just because it's the right thing to do
you